Write a song from the perspective of the last surviving human on the planet.
Write a song that tells a story about an intoxicated night out.
Imagine your life if you were a carpenter on a small island – population no more than 500. Your craft is your life. Write a song about an average Monday.
Many people consume coffee or tea during the first half of their day, and alcohol or other intoxicants during the latter half. Write a song from the perspective of someone who does this in reverse order. (eg: Brandy for breakfast.)
Consider life within an absolute dictatorship. Write a song about your commute to work.
Think about the day before yesterday. Write about your feelings and your ambitions for tomorrow (which would have been yesterday).
Write a song about the things you didn’t do yesterday.
Write a song about a famous person from history.
Write a song about all the best cereals there are.
Write a song comparing the value of material things to happy memories.
Remember your last argument – write a song from the other person’s point of view.
Write a song about the city you’re currently in.
Set your alarm slightly earlier than it needs to be, have your note book and whatever else you may need by your bed, then write a song the very moment you wake up – make this be the absolute first thing you do. Try to spend at least twenty minutes writing the song before you get on with the rest of your day.
Make a song where each line starts with the next letter in the alphabet (from A-Z)
Write a song that would fit as the opening track to your favourite film.
Base your song on your favourite fictional character.
Take your favourite food and make a song about it, without using the actual name of the food.
Use the chord progression from another song, but play it backwards.
Write a song about your first year in high school.
Write a song that explores why humans wear clothes.
Pick up the nearest book, turn to a random page, read the first paragraph and write a song about what you find there.
Put yourself in the position of a dog who can’t find his way home – write a song from his perspective. Don’t mention that you’re a dog.
Write a song about the possible need to experience true sadness in order to appreciate real joy.
Write a Birthday song. A brand new birthday song that we can all replace the classic with.
Write a song about someone you love, without using the word love.
Think of a time when you felt terrified – try to write a song that would calm someone who was feeling that same way.
Imagine you’ve reached a point in your life where you’re homeless, stuck in a foreign town, you don’t speak the language or know anyone, and you have no possessions. Write a song that details that experience.
Write a song that summarizes or references a bunch of your personal favourite songs.
Look around the room for something that comforts you – write a song purely about that thing.
Write a song about a topic of expertise you have – whatever the subject, just roll with it.
Write a song asking for help with something that’s been troubling you.
Write a song to your enemy about forgiving them.
Write a song using only 12 different words.
Make up a melody on the spot, then add lyrics to it based on what your eyes are drawn to as you look around the room.
Choose a planet other than Earth and write a song about living there with your family.
Write a song about everything you did yesterday.
Think of a country you’ve never visited and write a song about how you imagine it to be.
Write a sequel to one of your old songs.
Write a song about something you have privately always regretted.
Write a song about the last mainstream news story you heard.
Write a song in cave-man speak.
Write a comeback or reply song to someone else’s song.
Think back to the worst book you ever read, or the worst movie you ever saw, and write a song about it.
Get a stopwatch or timer ready and set it to just ten minutes – write a song in full, with two verses, and a hook. If you manage it, time another five minutes and write a middle 8. No cheating – when the timer stops, the song is over!
Write a song about the most pointless food you’ve ever tried.
Write a song using only two chords.
Consider a song about someone specific, then re-write it as if they were a totally different kind of person – for example, if the song celebrates their kindness, have yours berate them for their evil ways.
Play a riff or hum a melody on the spot, don’t overthink it, just make up a tune – then stick with that and turn it into a song about living in the moment.
Write a song without ever referring to any people – not yourself, or ‘you’, or ‘they’, ‘he’, etc.
Remember someone you knew who was a bully – write them a song.
Write an entire song using only single-syllable words.
Write a song about healthcare.
Write a song about about cruelty.
Write a song about your dream day – what you’d do, where you’d go, who you’d share it with.
Write a song in a major key about something that’s worrying you.
Write a song in a minor key about something that made or makes you laugh.
Write a song where each line starts with the next letter of the alphabet, starting with ‘A’.
Imagine you were an astronaut who had floated away from their spacecraft – write a song about that isolation and helplessness, or however you might feel.
Picture a society without money, where we simply trade independently – write a song about a day in the life.
Write a song about running a 200 mile race.
Write a song about your great, great grandparents falling in love.
Whoever you voted for in the last election, write a song celebrating an opposing party’s strengths.
Write a song about a psychedelic awakening.
Pretend you’ve bought a one way ticket, alone, to the other side of the world – you’ve made no plans upon arrival. Write a song detailing what you do when you get there; how you feel, what your options are, what’s around etc.
Write a song about the last day of your life.
Drum out a rhythm on the nearest hard surface and write a song or rap over the top of it.
Take one of your favourite songs and re-write all the lyrics to be about life alone on a deserted island.
Whatever subject you studied last, try to write a song about the key facts or principles you learned.
Write a song that says all the things you’ve never been brave enough to say to people.
Set the timer for one hour and get to work writing the best possible song about how you’re feeling today. Aim to write the best possible song, but more importantly – make sure to finish the song, whatever it seems to sound like, within that one hour. Record your work if you can. When the time’s up, the song is done.
Try to think of the saddest or most heartbreaking story or event you ever witnessed – write two different songs about it, one in a major key, one in a minor key.
Write a song about cheese.
Write a song about the difference between people aged 50+, and people aged under 35 right now.
Imagine your country as being completely under the control of the government – every move we make is monitored and our good behavior used to stack up societal points – write a song from the perspective of you, the citizen.
If we didn’t need or crave love in our lives, what would we do differently? Tell me in a song.
Focus on your breathing for five full minutes – try to keep it even, a few seconds in, and a few seconds out. At the end of the five minutes, pick up your instrument of choice and start writing your song.
Imagine going out to work and to do your daily tasks while completely drunk – like, blatantly, unmanageably drunk. Write a song about that day.
Write a song as if you were just being born into this world, it’s your very first hour on Earth (for some reason you already speak fluent English).
Try to remember a time you messed up in a big way. Write a song about how you might have done things differently, and how that would have impacted your life as it is now.
Write a song about the next big revolution in the world.
Write a song about life without language.
Write a song about the struggles of fame and having everybody know who you are and want a photo with you, everywhere you go.
Using either fiction or genuine experiences, write a song about using fitness or some epic athletic feat to overcome personal turmoil or difficulty.
Write a song about the global shift to electric vehicles.
The next time you’re about to watch something on YouTube, TV or Netflix, have a reminder by the device to instead sit down and spend the time writing a brand new song.
Write a song about building a bizarre new business from scratch. Whatever comes to mind.
Write a song using a specific scale for the melody – only work up from the start and back as if you were practicing the scale. This can also help sometimes when learning scales, make a little poem-song out of it.
Write a metaphorical song about love and hate battling it out on the front line.
Consider a bunch of societal timeline expectations that have affected you and write a song about these – eg. People expecting you to be married or own a house or have a certain type of job by a certain age.
Write a song that makes you cry when you perform it.
Write a song that makes you laugh when you perform it.
Write a song about a young person working their way up in politics right now – they still hold their values highly, they’re smart, educated, thoughtful and caring, but are about to enter the shark tank.
Write a song about how much everybody loves themselves online.
Print out a paragraph or two of text from your favourite book, then cut up the words individually and shuffle them around to make a new and mysterious song.
Imagine a future where people choose robots as their life partners. Write a song about your partner. Include pros and cons.
Take a piece of classical musical and write some lyrics to it – either using an existing melody or over the top.
Write a song about someone you lost.
Write a song about someone you’re afraid to lose.
Write a song about what you’d do if you knew you would live for 500 years. (You’re the only one)
Write a song about your life so far – the main events, the turning points, the direction you’re currently heading in. The hook should be the resolve – something emotionally hopeful regarding who you are or your future.
Songs Prompts About Love
Write a love song about your partner. Describe them in detail and communicate how they make you feel. 
Write a love song about a past romantic partner. How do you feel about them now? How did you feel about them then? 
Write a love song about someone you love, that you aren’t involved with romantically. Friends, parents, siblings. 
Write a love song about an object or prized possession you love. 
Write a love song about an activity you love – music, art, sports, walking, biking, whatever. 
Write a love song to yourself. What do you love about yourself? 
Write a love song about a couple you see on the street. Imagine their special kind of love. 
Write a love song about your parent’s relationship or your grandparent’s relationship. Imagine their conversation. 
Write a love song that sounds sad. How does a sad melody or chord progression affect the lyrics? 
Write Songs About New Relationships
Write a song about meeting someone unique and special to you. 
Write a song about meeting someone you are interested in dating. 
Write a song about your first fight in a relationship. Is it the end? Is it a good thing? 
Write a song about the newest friend you’ve made. Who are they? How do they make you feel? 
Write a song about trying to make your partner happy when they are not happy. 
Write a song about not wanting to date or see anyone else. 
Write a song about feeling unsure in a new relationship. 
Songs About Old Or Ongoing Relationships
Write a song about the first relationship you ever had. Think way back – did you have an elementary school girlfriend/boyfriend? Write a song about them! 
Write a song about love that lasts through the years and grows old. 
Write a song about your oldest friendship. 
Write a song about a relationship you’ve always admired – it could be friends, family friends, relatives or anyone else you can think of. 
Write a song about a fictional relationship. Think of love stories or romantic movies. 
Songs Ideas About Your Life
Write a song that describes yourself as an artist. Who are you? What makes you different? 
Write a tribute song to an artist that inspires you. Who are they? How do they inspire you? 
Write a song about the way you live life. What do you believe in? What guides your life? 
Write a song about your first memory. Think back. Way back. Describe it as well as you can. 
Write a nostalgic song about your favorite memory from childhood. 
Write a song about a terrible memory. Some time in your past when you felt hurt or sad. 
Write a nostalgic song about the house you grew up in. 
Write a nostalgic song about the neighborhood you grew up in. 
Write a song about a major life change. What was it? How did it affect you? 
Write a song about moving to a new city. Describe what if feels like to leave and arrive. 
Write a song about whatever you see outside your window today. 
Write a song about your greatest hopes and plans for your life. Lay it all on the table. 
Write a song about your biggest fears. What are they and why do they make you scared? 
Songs That Tell A Story
Write a song about a family story. If you don’t have any, ask your mom, dad, or grandparent for their memories and stories. 
Write a song about any story that stuck with you. Could be a news story or a story your friend told you. 
Write a song about a fictional story. Led Zeppelin wrote about The Lord of the Rings – so can you! 
Write a song telling the fictional story of someone you see on the street. Create their personality and backstory for them. 
Write a song that tells the story of the most interesting person you can think of. 
Write a song that tells the story of someone you feel is misunderstood by society. 
Write a song that tells the story of an instrument you own. Humanize the instrument. 
Write a song that tells your story, but from a third-person perspective. 
Songs About Your Feelings
Write a song about feeling good after not feeling good for a while. 
Write a song about feeling sad, mad, frustrated, or depressed. Why do you feel like this? 
Write a song about feeling stuck in your situation. 
Write a song about feeling free. 
Write a song about feeling uncertain. Uncertain of a relationship, a life change or a conviction. 
Write a song about needing help with something – a feeling, a problem or a relationship. 
Write a song about realizing you are wrong about something or someone. 
Write a song about realizing you were right about something all along. 
Write a song about feeling lonely. 
Write a song about feeling loved and supported by your friends or family. 
Songs Prompts With Lyrical Hooks
Write a song with a one-word lyrical hook – “Always”, “Creep” or “Mama”. 
Write a song with a two-word hook – “Bad Religion” or “You’re Beautiful”. 
Write a song with a question for a hook – “Is She Really Going Out With Him?” 
Write a song with a made-up word as the hook – think “Californication”. 
Write a song that uses the title of your favorite book as the hook – think East of Eden. 
Write a song that uses brackets in the title – “(I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction”. 
Songs To Push Yourself With
Write a song about something you are scared to write about. You don’t have to show it to anyone. Do it for you! 
Write a song that does not use the words “I” or “You”. 
Write a song in the style of an artist you love. Don’t be afraid to copy them. You may end up with something original. 
Write a song in the style of an artist you love, but that isn’t in your genre. See what happens. 
Write a song lyrics first. Don’t worry about a melody or chords, just write the best lyrics you can. 
Write a song that describes something in great detail. Don’t make it grand. Make it tiny and microscopic. 
Write a song that is under 60 seconds long. Can you make it feel like a complete song? 
Write a song without a chorus – Bob Dylan style. 
Open a book to a random page. Read until you find a word you like, and then write a song with that word as the title. 
Write a song about something you’ve never told anyone. It can be something you’re ashamed of or some deep feelings you’ve never shared. 
Write a song about something traumatic in your life. 
Songs That Get Silly
Write a song that has a punchline. Tell a story and then make the audience laugh! 
Write a song about something you saw on the street that made you laugh. 
Write a song about the absurdity of life. 
Write a song about something silly that you love. A toy, a picture, a taco shop down the street, whatever. 
Write a song about the first time you got drunk 
Write a song about the first time you had a crush. A playground crush! 
Write a song about something that seemed like a big deal at the time, but now is just funny. 
Write a song that has an acronym for the title – think “D.M.S.R.” by Prince! 
Write a song about the last thing that made you laugh out loud. 
Songs Ideas That Use A Bit Of Plagiarism
Use the chord progression from a song you love and write a new song over top of it. 
Take the lyrical hook or title from another song and write a completely different song to it. 
Take a tiny bit of someone’s melody and use it to start your own melody. 
Use a theme from someone else’s song, but write new lyrics and melodies for it. 
Take someone else’s song structure and imitate it. 
Try to make a groove or beat that sounds like a song you like, and then write a new song over top of it. 
Try to write another artist’s song. Could you write a Rihanna song? A Post Malone song? Give it a shot! 
Cover a song and then write more lyrics to it. 
Songs with A Social Message
Write an angry song about a story in the news that made you feel frustrated. 
Write a hopeful song about change. 
Write a protest song about an issue you care about. 
Write a song to motivate people to stand up for their rights. 
Write a song about a revolutionary from history. 
Write a song about self-acceptance and being yourself. 
Write a song about our connections to one another. 
Songs That Start With The Music
Make a melody, record it, and then write all the lyrics around it. 
Create a funky, danceable groove. Take it all the way, with choruses and everything and write the lyrics last. 
Create a chill groove and write the lyrics over it. 
Create a groove, and layer in samples from movies or other audio. Write lyrics that fit the samples. 
Create groove with only one repeating theme, and see if you can make it interesting. 
Write a melody that has a repeating rhythmic motif and write lyrics to it, 
Songs That Are A Part Of Larger Concepts
Create a story line that could be told over multiple songs. Write down the song’s titles and then start writing the songs. 
Make a list of all of your song’s titles. Write down other titles that fit with your current titles and then try to write to those titles. 
Pick a song you’ve written about a specific event or time. Write another song that is a follow up to the old song. 
Write a song about a current social issue and get other songwriters to write songs about the issue. Create a compilation. 
Write short songs that could go between your longer songs on an album. How can you tie everything together? 
Songs With Simple Themes
Create a unique dance move and write a song about it. 
Write a song about why you’re the best at what you do. 
Write a song about having lots of money. 
Write a song about not having any money. 
Write a song about dancing. 
Write a song about going to the club. 
Write a song about wanting to leave the club and go home. 
Write a song about having a party at your house. 
Write a song about staying in and not partying. 
Other Random Ideas
Write a song about your car. 
Write a song about your guitar. 
Write a song about wanting to live forever. 
Write a Christmas/Hanukah/Kwanzaa/Festivus song. 
Write a song about the weekend. 
Write a song about getting a brand-new set of shoes. 
Write a song about a crime. 
Write a song about doing your taxes. 
Write any song. Literally any song at all. Just do it. 
Write a love song. Any love song.
Write a love song from you to a current or former lover.
Write a love song from you to a desired or imaginary lover.
Write a love song from someone else to his or her lover.
Write a love song about an unusual kind of love.
Write a love song about a complicated kind of love.
Write a love song that never uses the word ‘love’.
Write a love song that never uses the word ‘you’.
Write a song where you break up with someone and you’re really happy about it.
Write a song where you break up with someone and you’re really sad about it.
Write a song where you break up with someone and you’re conflicted about it.
Write a song where you break up with someone but you’re terrified of doing it.
Write a song where you break up with someone suddenly after learning something new.
Write a song where someone broke up with you and you want them back.
Write a song where someone broke up with you and don’t want them back.
Write a song where someone broke up with you and you’re not sure if you want them back.
Write a song that says ‘I’ve never met anyone like you before.’
Write a song that says ‘Show me some respect.’
Write a song that says ‘I don’t care.’
Write a song that says ‘I don’t want to know.’
Write a song that asks ‘Baby, what’s wrong?’
Write a song that says hello.
Write a song that says goodbye.
Write a song that tells the story of someone you think is really interesting.
Write a song that tells the story of someone you think is misunderstood.
Write a song that tells the story of someone you really dislike.
Write a song that tells the story of someone you know personally.
Write a song that tells the story of someone you read about in the news.
Write a song that tells the story of an existing fictional character.
Write a song that tells a story about you, but from someone else’s perspective.
Write a song that introduces us to you as an artist.
Write a song that introduces us to someone else as an artist.
Write a song based on your key life philosophy.
Write a song that tells us something nobody else knows about you.
Write a song about a major event in your life.
Write a song about a major change in your life.
Write a song about what you want in life.
Write a song about your biggest hope in life.
Write a song about your biggest disappointment in life.
Write a song about growing up in your particular neighborhood.
Write a song that says ‘I’m happy.’ (And tell us why.)
Write a song that says ‘I’m sad.’ (And tell us why.)
Write a song that says ‘I don’t know.’
Write a song that says ‘Nothing’s gonna stop me.’
Write a song that says ‘Something awesome is coming.’
Write a song that says ‘I’ve been holding myself back all this time.’
Write a song that says ‘I’m ready to start a new chapter in my life.’
Write a song that says ‘I need help.’
Write a song that says ‘I never saw that coming.’
Write a song that says ‘I was right all along.’
Write a song that makes people feel happy.
Write a song that makes people laugh.
Write a song that makes people want to dance.
Write a song that makes people say ‘I love you’ more.
Write a song that motivates people.
Write a song that encourages people to be themselves.
Write a PSA song of your choice – think ‘Always Wear Sunscreen’.
Write a song from a parent to their son or daughter.
Write a song from a son or daughter to their parent.
Write a song for two friends.
Write a song for two enemies.
Write a song for two siblings.
Write a song for two lovers.
Write a song about getting married.
Write a song about eloping.
Write a song about moving to a new town.
Write a Christmas song.
Write an Easter song.
Write a Kwanzaa song.
Write a Hanukah song.
Write a ‘We make a great team’ song.
Write a ‘What would I do without you?’ song.
Write a song with a one-word hook – think ‘Jealousy’, ‘Hello’, ‘Fever’.
Write a song with a two-word hook – think ‘Bad Romance’, ‘Space Cowboy’.
Write a song with a hook that’s a phrase – think ‘No Good at Goodbyes’.
Write a song with a hook that’s a complete sentence – think ‘I’m Outta Love’.
Write a song with a hook that’s a question – think ‘Where Is the Love?’.
Come up with a totally original word or phrase – think ‘Love Foolosophy’, ‘Ghetto Gospel’ – and make that your hook.
Take the lyrical hook of an existing song, change one word and make that your hook.
Take the lyrical hook of an existing song, make that your hook BUT write about a completely different story or situation.
Write a perky melody, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a simple melody, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write an expressive melody, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a melancholy melody, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a melody that repeats a single rhythmic motif, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Coffee mug saying 'Begin' on table
Write an upbeat groove, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a melancholy groove, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a funky groove, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a weird-sounding groove, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a chilled-out groove, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a groove based on two alternating chords, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a groove based on a simple three- or four-chord progression, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Write a groove based on a chord progression from an existing song, figure out a song story that fits it, then write that song.
Set a drum loop playing then freestyle lyrics over the top until that gives you a song idea. Then write that song.
Write a song about life on other planets.
Write a song about your pet rock Ignacio.
Write a song about the Northern Line Extension to Battersea.
Write a song about the life and death of Hildegard von Bingen.
Write a song about a sweet potato that looks like Michael Caine.
Write a song that never uses the letter ‘m’.
Write a song that has a 60-second sackbut solo.
Write the song you’ve always wanted to write.
Write the song you’ve just decided you wanted to write.
Write the song you’ve never wanted to write.
Write the song you still don’t want to write.
Write the song you’re totally petrified to write.
Just write something. Anything. Anything you like.
Write a song about how much you love NESSKAF
Write a song about how much you love Taco
Write a song about how much you love The Coda Server
Write a song about how much you wanna Slap NESSKAF
Write a song about how much you wanna Slap Taco
Write a song about how much you wanna Slap The Coda Server